have you ever had to deliver a speech
with the specific goal of getting your
audience to take action in this video I
am going to break down how you can
deliver a persuasive speech and get your
audience to do just that hey everyone my
name is Wade Patterson and my YouTube
channel is all about communication
public speaking I talk about
Toastmasters I talk about social media
in some videos basically I want to help
make you a more impactful Communicator
because let's face it communication is
one of the most important aspects in
life whether it's business or personal
goals that you have communication plays
a key part and I am so honored that you
clicked on this video please consider
subscribing to my channel if you want to
get more content just like this
subscribers help me out so much in this
goal of delivering as much great video
content as I can persuasion sometimes
times has a negative connotation almost
as if it's something that you're trying
to get somebody to do something that
they don't really want to do or that's
not in their best interest but that
doesn't have to be the case in fact most
of the best persuasive speeches are
getting the audience to do something
where you truly as the speaker believe
that they will benefit whatever you're
talking about is going to help them in
their lives let's take my YouTube
channel as an example in every video I'm
trying to persuade you the audience
member to focus on communication skills
but that's not some hidden thing where
I'm trying to pull the wool over your
eyes and get you to do something that
you don't actually want to do I
genuinely believe that by improving your
communication skills you will improve
situations in your life and that is what
effective persuasive speeches are all
about is getting your audience to take
action and do something that is
beneficial to them and sure could
benefit you as the speaker as well but
it's a genuine
interest that you have in improving that
person the first step to building an
effective persuasive speech is to have
some form of credibility if I am telling
you that you definitely want to buy a
boat but I personally don't own a boat
I've never owned a boat I'm not even in
the business of making or selling boats
and I'm trying to convince you that you
absolutely have to buy a boat
you're probably gonna look at me and
think wait a second if this is such an
important thing why doesn't Wade own a
boat or why hasn't he taken more of an
interest in trying to acquire a boat it
doesn't really add up to persuade
somebody to do something you should
probably have some level of expertise or
knowledge regarding that particular
subject so that's the bare minimum that
step one is understand or have
experience in whatever it is that you're
trying to get other people to do as well
the second tip to building a persuasive
speech is to appeal to your audience's
emotions
so sticking with the boat example you
could ask your audience members to close
their eyes and envision themselves on a
hot sunny day stepping onto a beautiful
boat
as they leave the marina they can feel
the wind in their hair
yes I understand I don't have any hair
for it to go through but maybe if your
audience has mostly bald heads you don't
use that term but you ask them close
your eyes Envision that wind in their
hair their favorite song blasting
through the boat speakers and then they
slow down the boat they find a nice Cove
to enjoy the water they jump in and get
that cool refreshing feeling of the lake
while the sun warms them up
simultaneously it's the perfect way to
spend a summer day I didn't mean for
that to rhyme but that's a happy
accident by tapping into the audience's
emotions they can see themselves in that
situation and it sounds delightful
what's not to like about the picture
that you're painting about boat
ownership when everything's perfect the
day is perfect the weather is perfect
the boat is running smoothly you've got
great music coming through the speakers
you're enjoying a cool beverage
that's Paradise it sounds fantastic and
if you're going to persuade somebody to
do something you have to effectively
paint the picture of what it would be
like to actually experience owning a
boat after appealing to the emotions of
your audience you want to tackle the
logical reasoning behind whatever it is
that you're trying to persuade your
audience to do so again sticking with
this boat example you could talk about
the logistics for example in the city I
live in which is a beautiful city in
British Columbia Canada there is a
three-year wait list to get into the
local Yacht Club minimum that is the
minimum wait time and you have to own a
boat in order to get your name on that
list so by explaining that to your
potential boat owner that hey you need
to act now just to get your name on that
list so that you can live out this dream
this this perfect picture we've just
painted you have to act quickly and even
then it's going to take some time but if
you stall if you wait a couple years to
make that decision it's going to be five
six maybe seven years before you're
actually on that boat enjoying yourself
so you want to put some form of time
constraint behind it and impact the
important logical reason of why it makes
sense to act quickly you could also
tackle the financial question you could
compare owning a boat to renting a boat
and with renting a boat at the high
rental cost that we have you could do
the math that if you rented this boat 20
times you could actually purchase this
boat that we're selling similar models
and you own it at the end of it you own
an asset versus only renting it and of
course there's pros and cons with
renting versus owning but by painting
that specific number picture where they
understand well wait a second I'll be on
my boat at least 20 times in the next
few years maybe it does make sense to
actually purchase the boat rather than
just renting it time and time again
along with the logical reasoning you
also want to dispel or dismiss any
misconceptions that may exist about
whatever it is you're talking about in
the example of boat ownership you may
have heard the term there's the two best
days you have as a boat owner the day
you buy your boat and the day you sell
your boat and that again has this
negative connotation why you may not
want to own a boat because there's that
saying that exists how do you counteract
that well maybe if you're trying to sell
this boat you pull up some form of of
study or research that actually shows
facts and information that again
discourage whatever it is that's that
false narrative for example maybe you
find a survey that shows that 80 of Boat
Owners after five years of ownership
still considered themselves to be
completely satisfied with their decision
now you're using data and tangible
information to counteract some saying
which has maybe been heard and isn't all
that relevant an additional element you
can sprinkle into a persuasive speech is
the idea of social proof or other people
who have taken action and purchased a
particular thing and this one might not
always work but if you know the
individual really well and let's say you
have other friends who have purchased a
boat perhaps you can bring them into the
conversation and and say hey these
people who we both know and trust have
owned a boat for years and they love it
I talked to them recently I've got this
testimonial from them that they are
incredibly happy with that decision or
if you don't know the individual so well
maybe you can take an influential person
who is promoting a certain product or
boat or somebody that that person looks
up to and lean on their testimonial
again sometimes people are paid just to
talk about certain products so I'm not
saying that that's always the best
strategy but influencer marketing is a
thing for specific reasons that people
look up to those they follow online so
to bring in some of that social proof
that could help you out with your next
persuasive speech a final tip I have for
your next persuasive speech in making it
as effective as possible and I talked
about this a little earlier in the video
but is creating some form of urgency so
before I was talking about the fact that
in the city I live in there's quite a
long way to be part of the yacht club to
have a boat slip at that particular
Marina perhaps that's the approach that
you take or maybe it's a sale on boats
that you're having that is going to end
two months from now or a month from now
and you could say hey take it from
somebody who purchased a boat at a full
price three years ago if I would have
had this opportunity I would jump at it
I would
100 go purchase that at this price you
are not going to find another deal that
is this great you want to create that
sense of urgency because the longer
somebody sits and has to think about a
particular decision the more likely they
may talk themselves out of it or find a
reason not to take action but as the
person trying to persuade somebody to do
something you want to encourage them
create that sense of urgency so that
they do take decisive action as I
mentioned at the top of this video
persuasion is something that often has a
negative connotation but it really
doesn't have to you can persuade
somebody to do something that is going
to be beneficial I try to persuade a lot
of people to join Toastmasters for
example and it's not because I want to
steal your 150 dollar membership fees
every six months or whatever the
membership cost is it's because I
believe Toastmasters can make you a
better public speaker I've seen it
personally I've seen countless other
people go through the program and
realize improvements in their public
speaking skills persuasion doesn't have
to be negative and I certainly hope the
tips I provided it in this video helped
you if you ever have to deliver a
persuasive speech as always thank you so
much for taking the time to watch this
video if my channel is providing you
with value that is fantastic please
consider subscribing to the channel my
goal is to put out much more video
content that is going to help elevate
your communication
style expertise knowledge I want to make
you a better speaker a better
Communicator in general Please Subscribe
that is the best way you can help my
channel and once again thank you so much
for watching this video I will see you
on the next one people are more scared
of public speaking than they are of
dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it